# 286A2
Introduction (Back to Beginning) This assignment is a group assignment. Each group consists of two students. The task of this assignment is to design and implement the mobile and/or web application (the application) for a fictitious company to conduct online trading. This assignment is worth 25% of the total unit assessment. The assignment covers materials from Topic 1 to Topic 11. One of the objectives of this unit is to develop skills in self-learning and research. This assignment deliberately includes features that require independent research and self-directed learning in order to come up with a solution. A broad aim of this unit is to develop team-work skills, including communication, planning, task setting and monitoring, negotiation and conflict resolution. For this purpose, you are required to complete this assignment together with another student enrolled in the same unit (your assignment partner) as a group. The mark for each student in a group is calculated using the group mark and that student's percentage of contributions to the assignment. For details see ICT286 Assignment 2 Project Declaration . Team-work skill is worth 20% of the assignment. In some rare cases where a student completes the assignment alone without a partner, the maximum mark he or she could achieve is 80%, because the team-work skills could not be assessed. The assignment will be marked out of 100. To achieve a good mark you must strictly adhere to the Documentation and Submission Requirements. The following sections provide the details of the assignment including its various requirements. If there are still things unclear to you after reading these sections, you should contact the Unit Coordinator for clarification. Deadline and Penalty for Late Submission (Back to Beginning) The submission deadline of this assignment is specified in the Unit Information Page of the LMS. If there is any change in the submission deadline, it will be announced in the Announcements page of the LMS. Assignments submitted on or before the deadline will be marked out of 100%. Late submission of the assignment will have 10% of the raw marks deducted per day, unless an application for extension of submission deadline is granted. Submission that is late by more than 10 days will not be accepted (in fact the LMS will stop accepting assignments 10 days after the published deadline). 9/4/2020 ICT286 Assignment 2 https://www.it.murdoch.edu.au/~S900432D/x9uihO001lL16gYi899G31QvdmlpHaNRca311nL06ql1x/assignments/a2/index.shtml 2/8 Applications for extension of your assignment deadline can only be made via email to the Unit Coordinator, normally prior to the specified due date of the assignment. If an extension is granted (also by email), you must attach a copy of the email to your submission (see Documentation and Submission Requirements). Applications for extension by phone or in person do not count even if granted. The above policy will be rigorously enforced. General Requirements (Back to Beginning) Your task is to design and implement a mobile and/or web application for a fictitious company so that it can conduct its trading over the Internet. The fictitious company for which your application will be designed must meet all requirements specified in the next section. You are required to use the following technologies to implement the application: HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, PHP, Ajax, MySQL, and Apache Cordova. The client-server communication must be achieved using Ajax to speed up the application and to reduce latency. The product and user account details must be kept in the database and never hard coded in your application. Addition, removal or update of the product and account details must not cause any change in your application code. You must not use any web content management system to create this application. You need to obtain a prior approval from the Unit Coordinator if you intend to use any third-party frameworks or libraries not listed above. A Fictitious Online Trading Company (Back to Beginning) The first part of this assignment is to write a document describing a fictitious online trading company that sells many different products using its company web and/or mobile application. A company that only sells a small number of products (no more than a few dozens) or a fixed number of products (ie, new products cannot be added or old products cannot be removed dynamically) does not meet our requirement. If unsure, you must consult your tutor or lecturer for clarification. Note that you are required to provide an English document describing specific aspects of the company and describe how you, as a user, are expected to use this application. No web page design is involved. For example, you do not need to design web page layout, write HTML/JavaScript/PHP code or create any graphical and art work for the application. In this document, you must include the names and student numbers of the two group members. Your document should describe the following aspects of the company:

The company details: name, address, contact phone and email address. Other information such as the directors and key employees can also be included. Check some real company websites for hints on what to include. Of course, none of the above information needs to be real.
A general introduction to the company. A company always wants to portray itself in the best light possible. Information may include the company mission statement, ethos, historical glory, charitable support given to the local community, as well as other propaganda such as how good its products are, etc. The sort of things you can write here are only limited by your imagination, but be sensible.
The product information: a general description of the types of products the company sells. Unlike Item 5 below, this is not a description of any individual product. Check some real company websites or mobile apps and see how they promote their products via their companies' websites or mobile apps.
Online trading: describing how the company sells its products using its web and/or mobile application from the perspective of its users. The way this online trading is conducted can differ widely depending on the types of products it sells. However, you must meet the following requirements: a. The full product details are kept in the database on the server. The user can browse the product list and the relevant product details are then retrieved dynamically from the database on the server and displayed on the client to provide feedback to its user. It is not acceptable to have all product details fully displayed in the client as static information; 9/4/2020 ICT286 Assignment 2 https://www.it.murdoch.edu.au/~S900432D/x9uihO001lL16gYi899G31QvdmlpHaNRca311nL06ql1x/assignments/a2/index.shtml 3/8 b. There is more than one way the user can find a specific product from this application, e.g., by browsing product catalog or searching for a specific product with query strings; c. The application should allow or require customers to register with the application, thus gaining more privileged access than available to unregistered users. The application should distinguish the following types of users: occasional visitors, registered customers, and company staff. These three different types of users are allowed to access different parts of the application. For instance, the company staff are allowed to add, delete, or modify the product details in the database, but no other users are allowed to directly change the database. A registered user is able to order products, while an unregistered user is only allowed to search the available products.
A list of products: you need to compile a list of products. The list must have at least 30 items to allow meaningful search, the more the better. These product details are to be stored in the database.
Other company information: any other information that may enhance the application or improve the company's public image. Functional Requirements - Basic (Back to Beginning) Deveop a web and/or mobile application that provides following basic information and a search facility. Basic Information: Your application should provide all required company information and meet the following requirements.
It contains the basic information about the company, for details see points 1, 2, and 3 in the above section.
It has a consistent navigation system for users to move through your application.
It provides an online Help for users - instructions on how to use your application.
It must use HTML5's structural elements to define the overall logical structure of the front end of the application and use CSS to define the visual layout of those structural elements.
You may include video or audio clips in your application if they are deemed necessary, however in such cases, you must keep their sizes to the absolute minimum. Search Facility: In addition, your application must have a search facility to allow users to search for details of your products/services. The search facility must meet the following requirements:
The raw product/service data must be stored in the MySQL database on the server. They must not be hard coded in the HTML pages or dumped in the server file system. The data should be retrieved dynamically from the database and sent to the client in response to user enquiries. If new data are added to the database, your application should not have to be changed in anyway except the contents of the database.
The search facility must contain code to validate user input to make sure only the valid search query will be sent to the server site for action.
If a required field is found to be empty or containing invalid data, the user should be forced to re-enter the data.
Allow at least two levels of search. The first level of search is by keywords, where an entry is retrieved from the database if the user's search term matches any text in any product-related fields in the entry.
The second level of search is by browsing, where the user can go through different categories of products/services to find what he or she wants. Functional Requirements - Advanced (Back to Beginning) On top of the basic features described above, your application should provide different functionalities to three different types of users of the application: unregistered users, registered customers, and support staff from the company. Unregistered Users: anyone without authentication is given access to all basic functionalities specified above, including search products/services by keywords and by browsing. Registered Customers: a registered customer has an account in the application. He/she needs to be authenticated before access is granted. Once access is granted, he/she can modify his or her personal details such as name, address, phone number and email address. He/she can also submit an order for the company's 9/4/2020 ICT286 Assignment 2 https://www.it.murdoch.edu.au/~S900432D/x9uihO001lL16gYi899G31QvdmlpHaNRca311nL06ql1x/assignments/a2/index.shtml 4/8 products or services. After it is validated by the client-side script, this order is sent to the server-side script for processing. The client will then display the confirmation or rejection of the order (perhaps because not enough stock is available). If the order is confirmed, the database should be updated. Please note that anyone can register an account with the application to become a customer of the company without the involvement of the company support staff. Support Staff: a support staff member has an account with the application. He/she needs to be authenticated before access is granted. Once access is granted, he/she can access any customer account without using that customer's password. He/she can also modify product/service details in the database, such as adding a new product to the database, removing an existing product from the database, or changing the details of an existing product (e.g., stock level). Please note that a support staff member can create new support staff accounts. The information about the registered customers and support staff must be kept in the database, never hard coded in the application. Adding or removing an account should not change your application code in any way except the contents of the database. Note that any registered customer and support staff member should still be able to access the basic information and use the search facility just like any unregistered user, whether they are authenticated or not. To help your tutor mark your assignment, you are required to create three customer accounts and three support staff accounts in your database with the following usernames and passwords: Username Password user1 user1 user2 user2 user3 user3 staff1 staff1 staff2 staff2 staff3 staff3 Technical Requirements (Back to Beginning) The following technical requirements must be met:
Use only the following technologies: HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, Cordova, PHP and MySQL. Do not use any web content management system. Do not use any third-party frameworks or libraries unless you have obtained a prior aproval from the Unit Coordinator.
There are three possible front ends (clients) for this application: a. a web front end suitable for large screen size; b. a Cordova front end packaged for Android or iOS; c. a mobile web front end suitable for small screen sizes. As the screen size in (b) and (c) is considerably smaller than (a), the screen layout for Cordova app and mobile web must be redesigned. It is not acceptable to have the same screen layout for both large screen web front end and small screen mobile front ends. For this assignment you are only required to submit an application with (a) and (b) or (a) and (c).
The server part of the application must be written in PHP and MySQL. The same code base should serve all three front ends.
Communication between the client and the server must be achieved by using Ajax with the appropriate data exchange formats such plain text, XML and JSON. Your client will need to communicate with the server when it searches for products, changes product details or updates user accounts.
The information on the company's products must all be kept in the database on the server. The information about a particular product can be dynamically retrieved from the database in response to user enquiry and 9/4/2020 ICT286 Assignment 2 https://www.it.murdoch.edu.au/~S900432D/x9uihO001lL16gYi899G31QvdmlpHaNRca311nL06ql1x/assignments/a2/index.shtml 5/8 sent to the client for display. Addition, removal and update of product details should in no way change the application code or resource.
The information on customer accounts and staff accounts must all be kept in the database on the server. Adding, removing or updating a user account means changing what are stored in the database, and should in no way change the appication code or resources.
For the sake of clear structure and sharing of server code, your client and server code as well as resources are to be stored in the following sub-directories: Server: the server code and resources must be stored under sub-directory Server. WebClient: the client code and resources for the large screen web front end should be placed under sub-directory WebClient MobileClient: the client code and resources for the small screen web front end are placed under sub-directory MobileClient. Cordova: the client code and resources for the client part of Cordova app (i.e., everything under the Cordova project directory of your Cordova app) are placed under sub-directory Cordova (it shares the same server code and resources used by the two web front ends).
Except the client part of Cordova code and resources, all the other code and resources of your application must be hosted on the ceto server. There is no need (and no point) to host the Cordova code on ceto server.
You should try to use less number of HTML pages as switching between pages involve retrieving pages from the server and reloading of the pages, sometimes for the previously loaded pages. This is particularly problematic for the mobile devices. Ideally the required code are loaded at the begining and change of the screen display only requires the change of views, without reloading. Where possible, you should aim to design the application as a Single Page Application. Documentation and Submission Requirements (Back to Beginning) Your assignment must be submitted in the form of a single ZIP archive file to the LMS. Only one member of the group needs to submit the assignment. The archive file must be named in the following format: ICT286_A2__.zip For example, the students, John Smith and Jan Doe, would name their ZIP file as ICT286_A2_JohnSmith_JanDoe.zip. Your ZIP archive must contain the following files and directories: A PDF document named "Assignment2.pdf". See the detailed requirements of this file later in this section. A PDF document named "Company.pdf" describing the fictitious company for which your application is designed. A sub-directory named "Server" which contains all files for the server part of your web application. A sub-directory named "WebClient" containing all files that implement the web front for large screens. A sub-directory named "MobileClient" containing all files that implement the web front for small screens (if you choose to implement mobile web application). A sub-directory named "Cordova" containing the Cordova project directory for your application (if you choose to implement Cordova application). Note: if you use responsive design and have a single code base for the web client for both large and small screens, place the code under sub-directory "WebClient". 9/4/2020 ICT286 Assignment 2 https://www.it.murdoch.edu.au/~S900432D/x9uihO001lL16gYi899G31QvdmlpHaNRca311nL06ql1x/assignments/a2/index.shtml 6/8 In addition to submitting the files for your application to the LMS, you must host your web application and/or mobile web application on ceto using the default server (i.e., the Apache HTTP server on port 80). After your assignment is submitted to the LMS, you must not make any change to any assignment files hosted on the ceto server. Otherwise, we will not mark your assignment. The file "Assignment2.pdf" This PDF file should contain the documents in the following order:
Assignment 2 Project Declaration : all students (internal and external) must complete this check list and include it in the above PDF file.
Extension Granted: if you have been granted extension, include the email from your Unit Coordinator after the declaration form.
Brief description of the assignment: you can cut-and-paste the description from this web page when preparing your documenation.
Discussion of your solution: in particular, you should emphasise any aspect of your solution that is novel or unusual. You should also discuss technical choices available to you, the consideration behind your technical choice, and whether the result of your choice meets your expectation. You should highlight the strength and weakness of your solution and point out what improvement can be made to the design of your application.
Self diagnosis and evaluation: referring to Functional Requirements, and Technical Requirements, specified above, give a statement with the following details: what requirements are fully met, and what requirements are not fully met. This statement is important and essential. There is a heavy penalty (>50%) if your statement is too vague, short of sufficient details and/or misleading.
The URL of your live web application and live mobile web application (if applicable) : in addition to submit everything to the LMS, you must host your web application and mobile web application (if applicable) on the default Apache HTTP server on ceto (i.e., the server listening on port 80).
Test documentation for your web application (and mobile web applicatio if applicable) : your application must be thoroughly tested. You must provide evidence that each required feature is fully tested. You are required to document the test cases for each required feature to demonstrate that your application works as well as you have claimed. Each test case should include the purpose of the test, the outcome of the test and the evidence of the test. Each piece of evidence may be in the form of one or several screenshots. Marks will be awarded substantially based on these documented test cases. Do not expect to receive an above average mark unless your test documentation is complete and convincing.
Test documentation for your Cordova application (if applicable) : your Cordova application must be thoroughly tested. You must provide evidence that each claimed feature is fully tested. You are required to document the test cases for each claimed feature to demonstrate that the application works as well as you have claimed. Each test case should include the purpose of the test, the outcome of the test and the evidence of the test. For the purpose of this assignment, you are only required to test your app on an emulator rather than on a physical device. You must include various screen shots of the emulator as part of your test evidence. Marks will be awarded substantially based on these documented test cases. Do not expect to receive an above average mark unless your test documentation is complete and convincing. The documentation and submission requirements described above will be strictleyn forced. Your assignment will not be marked, or your mark will be significantlyr educed, if you fail to adhere to the above requirements. Breakdown of Marks (Back to Beginning) 9/4/2020 ICT286 Assignment 2 https://www.it.murdoch.edu.au/~S900432D/x9uihO001lL16gYi899G31QvdmlpHaNRca311nL06ql1x/assignments/a2/index.shtml 7/8 Your assignment will be assessed based on the aesthetic quality, the functionality, and the robustness of your application as well as the quality of your documentation. The breakdown of marks are: Presentation quality of your documentation: 10% Description of the fictitious company: 10% Functionality - Basic: 30% The basic information: 10% Search by keywords: 10% Search by browsing: 10% Functionalities - Advanced: 30% functionalities related to customers (including account registration and modification, as well as product ordering): 10% staff and user accounts functionalities related to support staff (including account creation and modification): 10% product addition, removal and modification by support staff (including adding products to the database, removing products from the database and modifying product details in the database): 10% Mobile application (either Mobile web or Cordova application): 20% If you submit both the mobile web application and Cordova application, up to 10% bonus mark will be awarded (final mark capped at 100%). Policy on the Reuse of the Third Party Source Code (Back to Beginning) Please read this section very carefully. All students are encouraged to solve complete the assignment independently with their own source code. I understand, however, that occasionally there may be justifiable reasons to use source code from a third party. Please note that if you have used one or more pieces of third party source code in your program (this includes the situations where you have made minor modifications to the third party source code), your assignment will be acceptable only if you have satisfied all of the following conditions: The third party source code is fully identified, including the page numbers and line numbers, in your source code and also in your assignment documentation, and The origin of the third party code is fully disclosed and acknowledged in your project submission, and The third party source code is fully commented in your program listing. All variables, functions and major control structures must be commented to show clearly that you understand the logic of the code, and The third party source code is less than 10% of your program (in terms of the number of lines), excluding the code specifically allowed to be used. The source code does not come from a student assignment, whether from Murdoch University or not. Failure to satisfy any one of the above conditions will result in 0 mark being awarded to your entire assignment. If unsure, you must seek clarification from your tutor or the unit coordinator, and get his or her confirmation in writing. The above policy will be rigorously enforced by the Unit Coordinator and Tutors. Grievance with Assignment Marking (Back to Beginning) Once your assignment is marked and the result is uploaded to the LMS, if you have any grievance with the marking, you must raise it with your Unit Coordinator by email, within 7 days (from the date the marks are uploaded to the LMS), or within the announced deadline in the LMS, whichever is earlier. Otherwise the marks awarded to you will be final and will be used to calculate your final weighted average score for the unit. Errata (Back to Beginning) 9/4/2020 ICT286 Assignment 2 https://www.it.murdoch.edu.au/~S900432D/x9uihO001lL16gYi899G31QvdmlpHaNRca311nL06ql1x/assignments/a2/index.shtml 8/8 This page is subject to change based on errors found. Any errors found and corrected will be posted in the Announcements page of the LMS. If you print out a copy of this page, please follow the news in the Announcements page of the LMS for any updates. Dr Hong Xie Unit Coordinator for ICT286 Last Revision: Thursday, 3 September 2020
